Vanhoef

We present several novel techniques to track (unassociated) mobile devices by abusing features of the Wi-Fi standard. This shows that using random MAC addresses, on its own, does not guarantee privacy. 
First, we show that information elements in probe requests can be used to fingerprint devices. We then combine these fingerprints with incremental sequence numbers, to create a tracking algorithm that does not rely on unique identi- fiers such as MAC addresses. Based on real-world datasets, we demonstrate that our algorithm can correctly track as much as 50% of devices for at least 20 minutes. We also show that commodity Wi-Fi devices use predictable scram- bler seeds. These can be used to improve the performance of our tracking algorithm. Finally, we present two attacks that reveal the real MAC address of a device, even if MAC ad- dress randomization is used. In the first one, we create fake hotspots to induce clients to connect using their real MAC address. The second technique relies on the new 802.11u standard, commonly referred to as Hotspot 2.0, where we show that Linux and Windows send Access Network Query Protocol (ANQP) requests using their real MAC address. 


Matte
MAC address randomization is a common privacy protec- tion measure deployed in major operating systems today. It is used to prevent user-tracking with probe requests that are transmitted during IEEE 802.11 network scans. We present an attack to defeat MAC address randomization through observation of the timings of the network scans with an off- the-shelf Wi-Fi interface. This attack relies on a signature based on inter-frame arrival times of probe requests, which is used to group together frames coming from the same de- vice although they use distinct MAC addresses. We propose several distance metrics based on timing and use them to- gether with an incremental learning algorithm in order to group frames. We show that these signatures are consistent over time and can be used as a pseudo-identifier to track devices. Our framework is able to correctly group frames using different MAC addresses but belonging to the same device in up to 75% of the cases. These results show that the timing of 802.11 probe frames can be abused to track individual devices and that address randomization alone is not always enough to protect users against tracking. 

Martin
Media Access Control (MAC) address ran- domization is a privacy technique whereby mobile de- vices rotate through random hardware addresses in or- der to prevent observers from singling out their traffic or physical location from other nearby devices. Adop- tion of this technology, however, has been sporadic and varied across device manufacturers. In this paper, we present the first wide-scale study of MAC address ran- domization in the wild, including a detailed breakdown of different randomization techniques by operating sys- tem, manufacturer, and model of device. 
We then identify multiple flaws in these implementa- tions which can be exploited to defeat randomization as performed by existing devices. First, we show that devices commonly make improper use of randomization by sending wireless frames with the true, global address when they should be using a randomized address. We move on to extend the passive identification techniques of Vanhoef et al. to effectively defeat randomization in ∼96% of Android phones. Finally, we identify a previ- ously unknown flaw in the way wireless chipsets handle low-level control frames which applies to 100% of de- vices we tested. This flaw permits an active attack that can be used under certain circumstances to track any existing wireless device. 

Cunche
Wi-Fi has imposed itself as one of the key radio technology in portable devices such as smartphones, tablets, and other wearable devices. Because they periodically scan for nearby access points, Wi-Fi devices act as portable radio beacons emitting short messages, called probe requests. The latter contain a unique identifier: the MAC address of the Wi-Fi interface. It can be used to passively track individuals. Owners of such devices are thus exposed to passive tracking in the physical world. 
MAC address randomization has been proposed as a way to prevent passive tracking, and is being progressively adopted by the industry. However, the MAC address is not the only piece of information that can be used for tracking. For instance, it has been recently shown that exploiting the content of frames as well as their timing could still lead to tracking despite MAC address randomization. 



Xu
This paper presents a new simple mobile tracking system based on IEEE802.11 wireless signal detection, which can be used for analyzing the movement of pedestrian traffic. Wi-Fi packets emitted by Wi-Fi enabled smartphones are received at a monitoring station and these packets contain date, time, MAC address, and other information. The packets are received at a number of stations, distributed throughout the monitoring zone, which can measure the received signal strength. Based on the location of stations and data collected at the stations, the movement of pedestrian traffic can be analyzed. This information can be used to improve the services, such as better bus schedule time and better pavement design. In addition, this paper presents a signal strength based localisation method.


Musa
Smartphones with Wi-Fi enabled periodically transmit Wi-Fi messages, even when not associated to a network. In one 12-hour trial on a busy road (average daily traffic count 37,000 according to the state DOT), 7,000 unique devices were detected by a single road-side monitoring station, or about 1 device for every 5 vehicles.
In this paper, we describe a system for passively tracking unmodified smartphones, based on such Wi-Fi detections. This system uses only common, off-the-shelf access point hardware to both collect and deliver detections. Thus, in ad- dition to high detection rates, it potentially offers very low equipment and installation cost.
However, the long range and sparse nature of our oppor- tunistically collected Wi-Fi transmissions presents a signif- icant localization challenge. We propose a trajectory es- timation method based on Viterbi’s algorithm which takes second-by-second detections of a moving device as input, and produces the most likely spatio-temporal path taken. In addition, we present several methods that prompt passing de- vices to send additional messages, increasing detection rates an use signal-strength for improved accuracy.
Based on our experimental evaluation from one 9-month deployment and several single-day deployments, passive Wi- Fi tracking detects a large fraction of passing smartphones, and produces high-accuracy trajectory estimates.

Kontokosta
New streams of data are being generated by a range of in-situ instrumentation, mobile sensing, and social media that can be integrated and analyzed to better understand urban activity and mobility patterns. While several studies have focused on understanding flows of people throughout a city, these data can also be used to create a more spatially and temporally granular picture of local population, and to forecast localized population given some exogenous environmental or physical conditions. Effectively modeling population dynamics at high spatial and temporal resolutions would have significant implications for city operations and policy, strategic long-term planning processes, emergency response and management, and public health.
This paper develops a real-time census of the city using Wi-Fi data to explore urban phenology as a function of localized population dynamics. Using Wi-Fi probe and connection data accounting for more than 20,000,000 data points for the year 2015 from New York City's Lower Manhattan neighborhood – combined with correlative data from the U.S. Census American Community Survey, the Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics survey, and New York City administrative records – we present a model to create real-time population estimates classi- fied by residents, workers, and visitors/tourists in a given neighborhood and localized to a block or geolocation proximate to a Wi-Fi access point. The results indicate that the approach has merit: we estimate intra-day, hourly worker and resident population counts within 5% of survey validation data. Our building-level test case demon- strates similar accuracy, estimating worker population to within 1% of the reported building occupancy.


Qin
With the explosive growth and wide-spread use of smartphones with Wi-Fi enabled, people are used to accessing the internet through Wi-Fi network interfaces of smartphones. Smartphones periodically transmit Wi-Fi messages, even when not connected to a network. In this paper, we describe the Mo-Fi system which monitors and aggregates large numbers of continuous Wi-Fi message transmissions from nearby smartphones in the area of interest using nonintrusive Wi-Fi sniffer sensors. In this paper, we propose an optimized Wi-Fi channel detection and selection method to switch the best channels automatically to aggregate the Wi-Fi messages based on channel data transmission weights and human presence activity classification method based on the features of human dwell duration sequences in order to evaluate the user engagement index. By deploying in the real-world office environment, we found that the performance of Wi-Fi messages aggregation of CAOCA and CACFA algorithms is over 3.8 times higher than the worst channel of FCA algorithms and about 76% of the best channel of FCA algorithms, and the human presence detection rate reached 87.4%.
